=> / Home
=> /gemlog Gemlog

# Planning Our First Camping Trip

This week I have been planning the first camping trip of our lives. Neither my wife nor I have ever been camping before. Since this is our first camping experience with the kids, we have decided to be gentle to ourselves, and therefore we booked a tent/RV site that we can drive up to. The site also has a bathroom complex around hundred yards away. It is also an electric site, I guess that is for RVs, but we can also use it to power/charge our electronics. We will stay for two nights on the weekend in June. One of our friends is also joining us along with his son. So, we will be three adults, two four-year-old kids, and one one-year-old baby. I will write about the specifics of the site and our experience upon our return.

So far, in the planning, below are the things that we already have or are to buy/arrange. Since it's our first camping and we do not know how frequently we will do it in the future, we keep the expenses low by borrowing or buying used gear. Please let me know if I should add or remove something from this list. It may also evolve in the coming days.

## Camping Checklist
### Medical Kit
* I have one first aid kit in the car.
* Bug spray.
* Biofreeze.
* Antiseptic spray.
* Prescription medicines.
* Anti-allergy and stomach upset medicines.
* Hand sanitizers.

### Shelter
* One tarp.
* One four-person tent.
* One playmat
* One picnic mat.
* Two sleeping bags + one to buy/borrow.
* Three sleeping pads to buy/borrow.
* One folding chair with storage. Our Friends also have three folding chairs.
* #36 bankline, and 550 paracords to buy.

### Cooking & Fire
* Bic lighters, magnesium firestarter, and charcoal to buy.
* Fire extinguisher.
* Two burner stove (to borrow) + buy two propane canisters.
* BBQ set.
* Cookware and utensils to buy or borrow.
* One cooler bag.
* Water bottles.
* Water ~ buy three large water jars, one for ours and two for our friends’ car.
* Trash bags.
* Food to decide.

### Baby Specific Stuff
* Diaper bag.
* Diapers, wipes, and vaseline.
* Formula and bottles.
* Jogging stroller.
* Toys

### Bags, Tools & Gear
* Binoculars
* Ham radio and walkie talkies.
* Hiking boots
* Overboard dry bag.
* One multitool.
* Morakniv companion knife.
* One plastic trowel.
* Flashlight, headlamp, emergency radio - light combo.

Day 7 of #100DaysToOffLoad

Note: For comment(s), please email at rohitfarmer@hotmail.com. Please also mention if I can post your comment(s) here below the article.
=> https://tinyletter.com/rohitfarmer Sign up for my newsletter to get all my non-technical blog posts from across the platforms right in your inbox.