=> / Home
=> /gemlog Gemlog

# Closure Is Important!

> I think it's important to have closure in any relationship that ends - from a romantic relationship to a friendship. You should always have a sense of clarity at the end and know why it began and why it ended. You need that in your life to move cleanly into your next phase. - Jennifer Aniston

I agree with the quote above by Jennifer Aniston. In my opinion, closure is critical both while ending a relationship and in other aspects of life where a process has to come to completion/end. It is never a good idea to keep open wounds. Over time they only get worse. No matter how hurtful it is, it's better to reach terms and close it off for healing. I have always been troubled by my relationship(s) that ended without proper closure, where I did not get a chance to speak my heart out even if it was not received well.

I also feel the same pain for not being able to attend my Ph.D. graduation ceremony. Under various circumstances, I got stuck in India and couldn't make it to England. Even though my Ph.D. experience was beyond anything, I could have imagined at that time, not being able to attend my graduation ceremony and end that chapter of my life appropriately, I feel like I did not get closure. This is probably the greatest regret of my life. 

Day 9 of #100DaysToOffLoad

Note: For comment(s), please email at rohitfarmer@hotmail.com. Please also mention if I can post your comment(s) here below the article.
=> https://tinyletter.com/rohitfarmer Sign up for my newsletter to get all my non-technical blog posts from across the platforms right in your inbox.