=> / Home
=> /gemlog Gemlog

# Sometimes Minimum Is Better

We are told to live abundantly, asked to give our maximum, and live to the fullest. However, no one ever tells us that sometimes it's okay to keep doing the minimum. I think it's rather more important to keep doing the minimum regularly than to wait for a hypothetical opportune moment to do our maximum. As the saying goes, a little progress every day adds up to big results.

* It is better to spend a minimum than to get into debt.
* It is better to pay your credit card debt's minimum balance (if not in full) than to pay outrageous penalties.
* It is better to save/invest a little bit regularly than to wait for a bonus.
* It is better to exercise a few mins every day than to wait for the day when you can get up at 5 AM and pump iron for an hour.
* It is better to read/study a few mins every day than to cram in one night before a deadline.
* It is better to keep checking on friends' and family's mental health for a few mins regularly than to wait until someone needs an intervention.
* It is better to keep reminding your children every day that you love them and are always there for them than to put up a great show that money can buy once in a while.
* It is better to be grateful every day than wait for a lottery win.
* It is better to live in the now (only for today) than to be stuck in the past or lost in the future.

Day 6 of #100DaysToOffLoad

Note: For comment(s), please email at rohitfarmer@hotmail.com. Please also mention if I can post your comment(s) here below the article.
=> https://tinyletter.com/rohitfarmer Sign up for my newsletter to get all my non-technical blog posts from across the platforms right in your inbox.