# Let's Connect

=> / Home

> I think socializing on the Internet is to socializing what reality TV is to reality. - Aaron Sorkin

I am glad that you want to get in touch with me. The easiest way to contact me is via email at [rohitfarmer@hotmail.com](mailto:rohitfarmer@hotmail.com) (yes, Hotmail, I am that old 😁). I also have an XMPP address for instant messaging; please request. _I do not feel comfortable handing over my phone number for Whatsapp/Telegram/Signal_. Below are all the platforms where you can find me.

## Decentralized / Federated / Encrypted
*   [Mastodon](https://fosstodon.org/@swatantra) ~ decentralized and federated Twitter alternative.
*   [Pixelfed.social/@swatantra](https://pixelfed.social/@swatantra) ~ decentralized and federated Instagram alternative (contains my amateur photography work).
*   XMPP/Jabber (instant messaging) ~ ask for the ID.
*   IRC Libera.Chat (often online) ~ nick: `swatantra`
*   Briar (peer-to-peer encrypted messaging) ~ ask for the ID.
*   Jitsi ~ preferred method for video chat.
*   EchoLink (KC3SNU) ~ for fellow Hams.

## Technical
*   [GitHub](https://github.com/rohitfarmer)
*   [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/rohitfarmer)
*   [Twitter](https://twitter.com/rohitfarmer)
*   [YouTube Channel](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCr_PZHmp5gMCukRqKhdGIrQ) for tutorial videos.
*   [Dev.to](https://dev.to/rohitfarmer) for technical writings.
*   [Research Gate](https://www.researchgate.net/profile/Rohit-Farmer)
*   [Slide Share](https://www.slideshare.net/rohitfarmer)

## Non-technical
*   [Unsplash](https://unsplash.com/@rohitfarmer) for my freely distributed photos.
*   [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/rohit.farmer.photography/) account for my amateur photography work.
*   [Facebook Page](https://www.facebook.com/rohitfarmerphotography) for my amateur photography work.
*   [Medium](https://rohitfarmer.medium.com/) for non-technical writings.
*   [Good Reads](https://www.goodreads.com/user/show/82085648-rohit-farmer)
*   [Libib](https://www.libib.com/u/rohitfarmer) for my physical books home library.
*   [Discogs](https://www.discogs.com/user/rohitfarmer) for my physical medium music library.